BERT sparse transfer learning tutorial (#471)
neuralmagic/sparseml: integrations/huggingface-transformers/tutorials/bert_sparse_transfer_learning.md

<!--
Copyright (c) 2021 - present / Neuralmagic, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->

# Sparse Transfer Learning With BERT

This tutorial shows how Neural Magic sparse models simplify the sparsification process by offering pre-sparsified BERT models for transfer learning onto other datasets.

## Overview

> Neural Magic’s ML team creates sparsified models that allow anyone to plug in their data and leverage pre-sparsified models from the SparseZoo on top of Hugging Faces’ robust training pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Neural Magic’s ML team creates sparsified models that allow anyone to plug in their data and leverage pre-sparsified models from the SparseZoo on top of Hugging Face's robust training pipelines.
```

- Selecting a pre-sparsified model.
- Selecting a dataset use case.
- Creating a dense teacher model for distillation.
- Applying a sparse transfer learning recipe.
- Exporting an inference graph to reduce its deployment size and run it in an inference engine such as DeepSparse.

Before diving in, be sure to set up as listed in the [README](https://github.com/neuralmagic/sparseml/blob/main/integrations/huggingface-transformers/README.md) for this integration.
Additionally, all commands are intended to be run from the root of the `huggingface-transformers` integration folder (`cd integrations/huggingface-transformers`).

## Need Help?

For Neural Magic Support, sign up or log in to get help with your questions in our Tutorials channel: [Discourse Forum](https://discuss.neuralmagic.com/) and/or [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/discuss-neuralmagic/shared_invite/zt-q1a1cnvo-YBoICSIw3L1dmQpjBeDurQ).

## Selecting a Pre-sparsified Model

For this tutorial, you will use a 12-layer BERT model sparsified to 80% on the Wikitext and BookCorpus dataset. 
As a good tradeoff between inference performance and accuracy, 

> This 12 layer model gives 3.9x better throughput while recovering close to the dense baseline for most transfer tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This 12-layer model gives 3.9x better throughput while recovering close to the dense baseline for most transfer tasks.
```

The SparseZoo stub for this model is `zoo:nlp/masked_language_modeling/bert-base/pytorch/huggingface/bookcorpus_wikitext/12layer_pruned80-none` and will be used to select the model in the training commands used later. 

> Additional BERT models, including ones with higher sparsity and fewer layers, are found on the [SparseZoo](https://sparsezoo.neuralmagic.com/?page=1&domain=nlp&sub_domain=masked_language_modeling) and can be subbed in place of the 12-layer 80% sparse model for better performance or recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional BERT models, including ones with higher sparsity and fewer layers, are found on the [SparseZoo](https://sparsezoo.neuralmagic.com/?page=1&domain=nlp&sub_domain=masked_language_modeling) and can be substituted in place of the 12-layer 80% sparse model for better performance or recovery.
```

| Named Entity Recognition   | [CoNNL2003](https://www.clips.uantwerpen.be/conll2003/ner/)                   | A dataset concentrated on four types of named entities: persons, locations, organizations, and names of miscellaneous entities that do not belong to the previous three groups.                                       | 88.5 acc (94.7 baseline) |
| Sentiment Analysis         | [SST2](https://nlp.stanford.edu/sentiment/)                                   | A corpus that includes fine-grained sentiment labels for phrases within sentences and presents new challenges for sentiment compositionality.                                                                       | 91.3 acc (91.2 baseline) |

Once you have selected a use case and dataset, you are ready to create a teacher model.

## Creating a Dense Teacher

Distillation works very well for BERT and NLP in general to create highly sparse and accurate models for deployment.

> Following this sentiment, you will create a dense teacher model before applying sparse transfer learning.

Reviewer 2: In practice it's highly likely that the client already has a dense model trained on the (downstream) dataset and wish to sparsify. If so it could be used as the teacher. We should mention this here.

Author: Good point, will update

| Named Entity Recognition   | [CoNNL2003](https://www.clips.uantwerpen.be/conll2003/ner/)                   | `python transformers/examples/pytorch/token-classification/run_ner.py --model_name_or_path bert-base-uncased --dataset_name conll2003 --do_train --do_eval --evaluation_strategy epoch --per_device_train_batch_size 32 --learning_rate 5e-5 --output_dir models/teacher --preprocessing_num_workers 16 --num_train_epochs 5 --seed 2021`              |
| Sentiment Analysis         | [SST2](https://nlp.stanford.edu/sentiment/)                                   | `python transformers/examples/pytorch/text-classification/run_glue.py --model_name_or_path bert-base-uncased --task_name sst2 --do_train --do_eval --evaluation_strategy epoch --per_device_train_batch_size 32 --learning_rate 5e-5 --max_seq_length 128 --output_dir models/teacher --preprocessing_num_workers 16 --num_train_epochs 2 --seed 2021` |

Select the training command that applies to your use case and then run in your training environment.

> The time to execute the training commands will differ according to dataset and training environment, but generally they should run to completion in less than 12 hours.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The time to execute the training commands will differ according to dataset and training environment, but generally, they should run to completion in less than 12 hours.
```

Once the command has completed, you will have a deployable sparse model located in `models/teacher`.

You are ready to transfer learn the model.

## Transfer Learning the Model

With the dense teacher now trained to convergence, you will begin the sparse transfer learning with distillation with a recipe.

> The dense teacher will distill knowledge into the sparse architecture, therefore increasing its performance while ideally converging to the dense solution's accuracy.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need to keep saying "dense" for teacher.

Reviewer 2: Can we avoid "dense solution" here?

Author: I'll remove a bit of the redundancy, but I do think it's good to keep one call out that the teacher is a dense model

The recipe encodes the hyperparameters necessary for transfer learning the sparse architecture.

> Specifically, it ensures that the sparsity is preserved through the training process.

Reviewer 2: Somewhere here maybe we should add some sentences about the ConstantPruningModifier because it's the only extra piece needed for transferring a sparse model. It also shows that we make sparse transfer learning easy to do (just add these 3 lines in your regular training recipe etc).

Author: I think this is diving into a bit too much detail for a user at this level. We likely should have a separate one that explores what a general sparse transfer recipe is composed of

Select the transfer training command that applies to your use case and then run in your training environment.
The time to execute the training commands will differ according to dataset and training environment, but generally they should run to completion in less than 12 hours.
Once the command has completed, you will have a sparse checkpoint located in `models/12layer_pruned80-none`.

You are ready to export for inference.

## Exporting for Inference

> The sparsification run with the argument `--export_onnx_path` will creates an ONNX model that can be used for deployment. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The sparsification run with the argument `--export_onnx_path` will create an ONNX model that can be used for deployment. 
```

Unfortunately, many have not realized the benefits due to the complicated process and number of hyperparameters involved.
Working through this tutorial, you will experience how Neural Magic recipes simplify the sparsification process by:

- Selecting a pre-sparsified model.
- Selecting a dataset use case.
- Creating a dense teacher model for distillation.
- Applying a sparse transfer learning recipe.
- Exporting an inference graph to reduce its deployment size and run it in an inference engine such as DeepSparse.

Before diving in, be sure to set up as listed in the [README](https://github.com/neuralmagic/sparseml/blob/main/integrations/huggingface-transformers/README.md) for this integration.
Additionally, all commands are intended to be run from the root of the `huggingface-transformers` integration folder (`cd integrations/huggingface-transformers`).

## Need Help?

For Neural Magic Support, sign up or log in to get help with your questions in our Tutorials channel: [Discourse Forum](https://discuss.neuralmagic.com/) and/or [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/discuss-neuralmagic/shared_invite/zt-q1a1cnvo-YBoICSIw3L1dmQpjBeDurQ).

## Selecting a Pre-sparsified Model

> For this tutorial, you will use a 12-layer BERT model sparsified to 80% on the Wikitext and BookCorpus dataset. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, you will use a 12-layer BERT model sparsified to 80% on the Wikitext and BookCorpus datasets. 
```

As a good tradeoff between inference performance and accuracy, 

> This 12-layer model gives 3.9x better throughput while recovering close to the dense baseline for most transfer tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this 12-layer model gives 3.9x better throughput while recovering close to the dense baseline for most transfer tasks.
```

| Named Entity Recognition   | [CoNNL2003](https://www.clips.uantwerpen.be/conll2003/ner/)                   | `python transformers/examples/pytorch/token-classification/run_ner.py --model_name_or_path models/12layer_pruned80-none --dataset_name conll2003 --do_eval --evaluation_strategy epoch --preprocessing_num_workers 16 --output_dir models/12layer_pruned80-none/eval --onnx_export_path models/12layer_pruned80-none/onnx`                                       |
| Sentiment Analysis         | [SST2](https://nlp.stanford.edu/sentiment/)                                   | `python transformers/examples/pytorch/text-classification/run_glue.py --model_name_or_path models/12layer_pruned80-none --task_name sst2 --do_eval --per_device_eval_batch_size 64 --output_dir models/12layer_pruned80-none/eval --preprocessing_num_workers 16 --onnx_export_path models/12layer_pruned80-none/onnx`                                           |

> Select the export command that applies to your use case and then run in your training environment.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Select the export command that applies to your use case and then run it in your training environment.
```

This tutorial shows how Neural Magic sparse models simplify the sparsification process by offering pre-sparsified BERT models for transfer learning onto other datasets.

## Overview

Neural Magic’s ML team creates sparsified models that allow anyone to plug in their data and leverage pre-sparsified models from the SparseZoo on top of Hugging Faces’ robust training pipelines.
Sparsifying involves removing redundant information from neural networks using algorithms such as pruning and quantization, among others.
This sparsification process results in many benefits for deployment environments, including faster inference and smaller file sizes.
Unfortunately, many have not realized the benefits due to the complicated process and number of hyperparameters involved.
Working through this tutorial, you will experience how Neural Magic recipes simplify the sparsification process by:

- Selecting a pre-sparsified model.
- Selecting a dataset use case.
- Creating a dense teacher model for distillation.
- Applying a sparse transfer learning recipe.
- Exporting an inference graph to reduce its deployment size and run it in an inference engine such as DeepSparse.

> Before diving in, be sure to go through setup as listed out in the [README](https://github.com/neuralmagic/sparseml/blob/main/integrations/huggingface-transformers/README.md) for this integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before diving in, be sure setup as listed in the [README](https://github.com/neuralmagic/sparseml/blob/main/integrations/huggingface-transformers/README.md) for this integration.
```

Additionally, all commands are intended to be run from the root of the `transformers` repository folder (`cd integrations/huggingface-transformers/transformers`).

## Need Help?

For Neural Magic Support, sign up or log in to get help with your questions in our Tutorials channel: [Discourse Forum](https://discuss.neuralmagic.com/) and/or [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/discuss-neuralmagic/shared_invite/zt-q1a1cnvo-YBoICSIw3L1dmQpjBeDurQ).

## Selecting a Pre-sparsified Model

> For this tutorial, we will use a 12 layer BERT model sparsified to 80% on the Wikitext and BookCorpus dataset. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, you will use a 12-layer BERT model sparsified to 80% on the Wikitext and BookCorpus dataset. 
```

> This model gives a good tradeoff between inference performance and accuracy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a good tradeoff between inference performance and accuracy, 
```

This 12 layer model gives 3.9x better throughput while recovering close to the dense baseline for most transfer tasks.

> The SparseZoo stub for this model is `zoo:nlp/masked_language_modeling/bert-base/pytorch/huggingface/bookcorpus_wikitext/12layer_pruned80-none` and will be used to select the model in the training commands to be used later. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SparseZoo stub for this model is `zoo:nlp/masked_language_modeling/bert-base/pytorch/huggingface/bookcorpus_wikitext/12layer_pruned80-none` and will be used to select the model in the training commands used later. 
```

> Additional BERT models, including ones with higher sparsity and fewer layers, are found on the [SparseZoo](https://sparsezoo.neuralmagic.com/?page=1&domain=nlp&sub_domain=masked_language_modeling) and can be subbed in place of the 12 layer 80% sparse model for better performance or recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additional BERT models, including ones with higher sparsity and fewer layers, are found on the [SparseZoo](https://sparsezoo.neuralmagic.com/?page=1&domain=nlp&sub_domain=masked_language_modeling) and can be subbed in place of the 12-layer 80% sparse model for better performance or recovery.
```

## Selecting a Dataset Use Case

> Results and examples are given for 5 common use cases with popular datasets in this tutorial. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Results and examples are given for five common use cases with popular datasets in this tutorial. 
```

> If you would like to apply these approaches to your own dataset, Hugging Face has additional information for setup of custom datasets [here](https://huggingface.co/transformers/custom_datasets.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To apply these approaches to your own dataset, Hugging Face has additional information for setup of custom datasets [here](https://huggingface.co/transformers/custom_datasets.html).
```

| Use Case                   | Dataset                                                                       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                          | Sparse Transfer Results  |
|----------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| Question and Answering     | [SQuAD](https://rajpurkar.github.io/SQuAD-explorer/)                          | A reading comprehension dataset, consisting of questions posed by crowdworkers on a set of Wikipedia articles, where the answer to every question is a segment of text from the corresponding reading passage.       | 87.1 F1 (87.5 baseline)  |

> | Binary Classification      | [QQP](https://quoradata.quora.com/First-Quora-Dataset-Release-Question-Pairs) | A dataset made up of potential question pairs from Quora with a boolean label representing whether the questions are duplicates or not.                                                                              | 90 acc (91.3 baseline)   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Binary Classification      | [QQP](https://quoradata.quora.com/First-Quora-Dataset-Release-Question-Pairs) | A dataset made up of potential question pairs from Quora with a boolean label representing whether or not the questions are duplicates                                                                              | 90 acc (91.3 baseline)   |
```

| Multi-Class Classification | [MNLI](https://cims.nyu.edu/~sbowman/multinli/)                               | A crowd-sourced collection of sentence pairs annotated with textual entailment information. It covers a range of genres of spoken and written text and supports a distinctive cross-genre generalization evaluation. | 81.9 acc (82.3 baseline) |
| Named Entity Recognition   | [CoNNL2003](https://www.clips.uantwerpen.be/conll2003/ner/)                   | A dataset concentrated on four types of named entities: persons, locations, organizations and names of miscellaneous entities that do not belong to the previous three groups.                                       | 88.5 acc (94.7 baseline) |

> | Sentiment Analysis         | [SST2](https://nlp.stanford.edu/sentiment/)                                   | A corpus that includes fine-grained sentiment labels for phrases within sentences and presented new challenges for sentiment compositionality.                                                                       | 91.3 acc (91.2 baseline) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Sentiment Analysis         | [SST2](https://nlp.stanford.edu/sentiment/)                                   | A corpus that includes fine-grained sentiment labels for phrases within sentences and presents new challenges for sentiment compositionality.                                                                       | 91.3 acc (91.2 baseline) |
```

Once you have selected a use case and dataset, you are ready to create a teacher model.

## Creating a Dense Teacher

Distillation works very well for BERT and NLP in general to create highly sparse and accurate models for deployment.

> Following along with this sentiment, we walk through first creating a dense teacher model before applying sparse transfer learning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following this sentiment, you will walk through first creating a dense teacher model before applying sparse transfer learning.
```

> Note, the sparse models can be transferred without using distillation from the dense teacher; however, the end models accuracy will be lower.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note, the sparse models can be transferred without using distillation from the dense teacher; however, the end model's accuracy will be lower.
```

The training commands for the dense teacher are listed below for each use case.
The batch size may need to be lowered depending on the available GPU memory. 

> If you run into an out of memory issue or initial crash, try to lower the batch size to remedy the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run out of memory or experience an initial crash, try to lower the batch size to remedy the issue.
```

| Sentiment Analysis         | [SST2](https://nlp.stanford.edu/sentiment/)                                   | `python transformers/examples/pytorch/text-classification/run_glue.py --model_name_or_path bert-base-uncased --task_name sst2 --do_train --do_eval --evaluation_strategy epoch --per_device_train_batch_size 32 --learning_rate 5e-5 --max_seq_length 128 --output_dir models/teacher --preprocessing_num_workers 16 --num_train_epochs 2 --seed 2021` |

Select the training command that applies to your use case and then run in your training environment.
The time to execute the training commands will differ according to dataset and training environment, but generally they should run to completion in less than 12 hours.
Once the command has completed, you will have a dense teacher model in the following directory structure:

```
|-- exp
   |   |-- weights
   |   |   |-- best.pt
   |   |   |-- best.onnx
   |   |   `-- last.pt
   `-- ...
```

You are ready to transfer learn the model.

## Transfer Learning the Model

> With the dense teacher now trained to convergence, we will begin the sparse transfer learning with distillation with a recipe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the dense teacher now trained to convergence, you will begin the sparse transfer learning with distillation with a recipe.
```

> The dense teacher will distill knowledge into the sparse architecture therefore increasing its performance while ideally converging to the dense solution's accuracy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dense teacher will distill knowledge into the sparse architecture, therefore increasing its performance while ideally converging to the dense solution's accuracy.
```

The recipe encodes the hyperparameters necessary for transfer learning the sparse architecture.

> Specifically it ensures that the sparsity is preserved through the training process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifically, it ensures that the sparsity is preserved through the training process.
```

> The available recipes for the sparse BERT model we are using are visible on the [SparseZoo](https://sparsezoo.neuralmagic.com/models/nlp%2Fmasked_language_modeling%2Fbert-base%2Fpytorch%2Fhuggingface%2Fbookcorpus_wikitext%2F12layer_pruned80-none) along with recipes for the other models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The available recipes for the sparse BERT model you are using are visible on the [SparseZoo](https://sparsezoo.neuralmagic.com/models/nlp%2Fmasked_language_modeling%2Fbert-base%2Fpytorch%2Fhuggingface%2Fbookcorpus_wikitext%2F12layer_pruned80-none) along with recipes for the other models.
```

The transfer training commands are listed below for each use case.

> Like with training the teacher, the batch size may need to be lowered depending on the available GPU memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with training the teacher, the batch size may need to be lowered depending on the available GPU memory.
```

> If you run into an out of memory issue or initial crash, try to lower the batch size to remedy the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run out of memory issue or experience an initial crash, try to lower the batch size to remedy the issue.
```

| Sentiment Analysis         | [SST2](https://nlp.stanford.edu/sentiment/)                                   | `python transformers/examples/pytorch/text-classification/run_glue.py --model_name_or_path bert-base-uncased --task_name sst2 --do_train --do_eval --evaluation_strategy epoch --per_device_train_batch_size 32 --learning_rate 5e-5 --max_seq_length 128 --output_dir models/teacher --preprocessing_num_workers 16 --num_train_epochs 2 --seed 2021`                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Select the transfer training command that applies to your use case and then run in your training environment.

> Again the time to execute the training commands will differ according to dataset and training environment, but generally they should run to completion in less than 12 hours.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The time to execute the training commands will differ according to dataset and training environment, but generally they should run to completion in less than 12 hours.
```

Once the command has completed, you will have a deployable sparse model in the following directory structure:

```
|-- exp
   |   |-- weights
   |   |   |-- best.pt
   |   |   |-- best.onnx
   |   |   `-- last.pt
   `-- ...
```

You are ready to export for inference.

## Exporting for Inference

This step loads a checkpoint file of the best weights measured on the validation set, and converts it into the more common inference formats.
Then, you can run the file through a compression algorithm to reduce its deployment size and run it in an inference engine such as DeepSparse.

The `best.pt` file, located in the previous step, contains a checkpoint of the best weights measured on the validation set.
These weights can be loaded into the `train.py` and `test.py` scripts now.

> However, other formats are generally more friendly for other inference deployment platforms, such as [ONNX](https://onnx.ai/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, other formats, such as [ONNX](https://onnx.ai/) are generally more friendly for other inference deployment platforms.
```
